I'm Daniel Steinberg,
and welcome to the session on talking
about audio capabilities of QuickTime 7.
I should mention that we'll
be playing some surround sound
content in these speakers:
center, left, right, left surround,
right surround.
So if you're sitting near those speakers,
it won't sound very balanced.
You might want to try to move into the
center so you can hear things better.
We'll be talking today about some of
the things that you can do to use the
new features of QuickTime Audio most
effectively in your applications.
And we'll show you some of the things
you can do to author multi-channel
media in QuickTime Player and
QuickTime Player Pro.
We'll have several sample
applications for you to look at,
and we'll show you some code.
These samples are not on the CD,
I'm afraid,
and they're not on the website right now.
They're going to be posted to developer
services on the web next week.
But if you come to the Media Lab this
afternoon or during the week,
we'll be able to give you a
copy onto your machine from
a CD master that we've got.
So you can get the sample
code if you're hot for it now,
and just wait until next week,
it'll be up on the web.
We won't be covering
all features in depth,
we just don't have time,
but we'll try to give you some salient
features and interesting things.
We'll talk particularly
about multi-channel audio.
Both playback and capture,
how to create content, label content,
and how to support channel
layouts in your application.
We'll also be giving a brief
overview of some of the audio
APIs that are new in QuickTime 7.
And some of the property-based APIs.
And we'll be talking about
movie audio extraction,
which is the new API for getting
audio out of a movie so that you
don't have to go into the samples
and decode yourself and try to
figure out how it's going to mix.
And second guess,
you can do it using this API.
And we'll have significant code
talking about audio capture with
the new SGAudio channel component.
So I'm going to very,
very briefly talk about what's new in
QuickTime because there's quite a bit,
and we went over it last year.
I hope many of you were here last year,
and now it's out there.
The fundamental change is that we
are now playing soundtracks through
Core Audio instead of Sound Manager.
And this is through the facility
that we're calling an audio context.
You can create an audio context
for a Core Audio device and
then assign it to your movie,
and then all the soundtracks
will play to that context.
That context includes a mixer,
so it's mixing all tracks together,
and then you can do things like
gain control on the mixed audio,
which was not possible before.
When you said set volume,
it would go to individual tracks.
Now we actually have a physical...
[Transcript missing]
We have movie-level APIs for,
as I mentioned,
setting the playback device
and also for certain controls.
And one of the things that
we've gotten by the ability to
be working with Core Audio is
a pitch-preserving vary speed,
the AU time pitch unit in Core Audio,
which is an exciting feature for us.
It's enabled by default
in QtKit and QtActiveX,
and therefore the QuickTime player,
which is QtKit-based,
gets that by default.
Other apps,
you have to opt-in because the
backward compatibility mode
is you open a movie that had,
for instance, scaled edits,
and they change pitch.
So if you opt-in using
new movie from properties,
then you'll get this new property and
preserve the pitch on the scaled edits.
We have high-resolution audio support
we've been talking about for some time,
media sample rates up to 192 kHz,
sample depths to 24-bit,
and 32-bit float.
All the Core Audio internals
are 32-bit float,
so you can store a movie in 64-bit float,
but it's all going to be converted
to 32 when we're processing it.
We support multichannels, as I mentioned.
You can have single tracks,
which are multichannel tracks,
or you can have individual tracks that
have individual contributing channels,
and it all gets summed
into a multichannel layout.
You can label channels with
their spatial location,
like the speaker name
or speaker location,
and it's all mixed and
routed under the covers.
We support playback of up to 24 channels.
There's really no soft
limit in what we support.
We're just talking about what we
can guarantee and test right now.
and Playback and Capture are supported
on most of the Pro Audio interfaces.
If your favorite interface isn't covered,
please let us know and we'll make
sure that we get it supported.
Audio extraction is now the
one-stop shopping for getting
audio out of your movie.
Because it's using the playback engine
as opposed to a separate mechanism,
what you hear is what you get.
Finally, what you hear when you play the
movie is actually what is exported,
which is a nice thing
from our point of view,
and it should be from yours as well.
Export of audio uses that same
audio extraction mechanism,
so it's all integrated.
Audio extraction works
on multiple threads,
and the demo code that I'll be
showing you actually does export
and playback on a separate thread,
so you can see how we can do that.
There's a tech note on
the developer website,
2125, that talks about
multithreading in QuickTime,
and it's a very useful tech note
that you should look up if you want
to do multithreaded applications.
The compression configuration
that was Stood Sound is now
superseded by Stood Audio,
and it provides access to
all the different features,
all the codecs,
all the multi-channel capabilities,
and you can either use its UI or
you can configure it headless,
as it were,
and put your own UI up and use
it to screen all your compression
capabilities and whatnot.
As in much of QuickTime 7,
we have a lot of properties now,
and movie properties and track
properties are kind of the way
that we're moving in the future.
So we support that as well
with gain and mute properties,
a balance property,
channel layout properties,
and several others.
There's some convenience functions for
the top-level movie and track control,
like gain, mute, and balance,
and also level and frequency metering,
which is now on the audio context
as opposed to individual tracks.
And as I said,
QtKit and QtPlayer have been vetted
and used properties extensively.
On the capture side,
we have a lot of new things because
we've got this new capture component,
SG Audio Channel.
It allows you to have taps in your
audio chain as you're capturing.
It's all integrated with Core Audio,
so you can get data out in formats
that you can feed into audio units.
We support multi-device
capture and preview.
And there's quite a bit of sophisticated
routing and mixing of tracks and
channels in SG Audio Channel,
and you can control that all.
We'll show you how to do that.
Of course,
it supports high-resolution audio.
We can capture from most Pro decks.
And on the fly,
you can do format conversion if you're
doing bulk transfers and you don't want
to be storing unmixed 192 kHz data.
You can downmix or compress on the fly.
Can we go to the demo machine, please?
And I'm going to show
you QuickTime Player.
I'm going to take this movie that
I created from six individual
unlabeled tracks of audio.
It's a Thelonious Monk
song you might recognize.
And bring it up, and I'll show you,
we can first of all...
See, Movie Info says, well,
it's mono because all
these tracks are unlabeled,
so they appear to be mono.
But if we actually bring up
the Movie Properties panel,
then you can see there's a
bunch of different tracks.
So, for instance,
when I start playing it,
you'll hear out of the
center speaker up there,
this track, it's a mono track,
so it's going to the center speaker.
But if I assign it to LFE,
where it belongs, then it'll be mono.
Now in the LFE channel.
And I can turn on this percussion track
and stick it over in the left channel.
And add some drums and
put it in the back right.
Maybe some piano,
put it in the front right.
There it is.
Finally, get some melody.
And that'll be in center,
because it's the melody.
And finally, some brass stabs we'll put
in the back corner there.
And now you can see that we've,
the summary info shows all these labels,
and now you can see what
the movie really is.
Okay, and I'll save that.
And, oh,
I can show you this while we're here.
The AV Controls panel,
which you get even if you
don't have the Pro key,
lets you play at other speeds
without changing pitch.
I'll just give you a
quick example of that.
[Transcript missing]
So we're going to talk about
some of the ways that you can
do these in your applications.
And we've taken the QtKit player
application that's in the SDK now and
added a panel to it that's primarily
for demonstration purposes and to help
you understand how audio is routed.
And we'll show you that.
Here's what it looks like.
You'll see that on the left,
there's a display about the movie
or about an individual track.
And on the right,
there's a display about the
device it's playing to or the
extraction that we're going to do.
In the right,
I'll talk about the device first.
We have a display of the
speaker setup of your device,
and we have a button that
says Configure Speakers,
and when you press that button,
it brings up Audio MIDI Setup,
which is an application
in Application Utilities.
You should all know
about Audio MIDI Setup,
do you?
If you plug in
multi-channel audio devices,
you want to go there to be
able to configure the speakers
and the formats and whatnot.
I found out that a lot of
people didn't know that existed,
so they were plugging in their
devices and didn't really
know how to set them up.
So I recommend that applications
actually have a Configure Speaker button
or menu item that's very useful.
And there's a gain slider on the bottom
that'll just track the movie gain,
just so we can show how gain
is set and controlled and
property listeners work for it.
Let me talk for a second about gain.
We've been moving from the notion
of volume to the notion of gain.
Volume was a number between 0 and 255 and
was difficult to map to anything useful.
Gain is a very explicit
mathematical function right now.
So a gain of 1 means unity,
means it's the same thing
the sound passes through.
A gain of 2 multiplies the signal by 2,
which is effectively
increasing it by 6 dB,
or a gain of 0.5 lowers it by 6 dB.
So obviously a gain of 0 is silence.
The Movie Audio Gain APIs and properties
replace the Movie Audio Volume APIs,
which are now just kind
of implemented on them.
And we have a mute API as well.
Mute is independent from gain now.
So in the old volume setting,
you had to say,
set negative volume to get it to mute and
keep your notion of what the gain was.
Well, now gain is constant.
It's not going to be the same thing.
We've been moving from volume to
volume and you can mute and unmute.
And gain is not persistent.
This is for playback.
If you want persistent gain,
there's a property,
which is the preferred-- movie
preferred volume or something.
And that will save with the movie.
We hope to add more persistence
features into our whole property
functions into the APIs as well.
And gain is listenable
from tracks and movies,
so you can have your UI track changes
that are happening from other places.
Actually, let me go to the slot,
to the demo machine.
And I will show you
This movie that I just saved on our
demo application comes up here as a
little player and you can play it.
This is the normal QtKit player.
And if I go to Window Audio Extraction,
it will bring up that panel you saw.
And here's the device layout.
It's showing you that we
have a multi-channel layout.
But in fact, after the 5.1 speakers here,
we have unknowns because it's
a bigger device that has many
channels that are not labeled.
So they just simply show up like that.
If I press Configure Speakers,
you'll see Audio Mini Setup come up and
show that we're playing to a mobile I.O.
And if I can find it,
it's got 18 channels.
And if I say configure speakers,
then I can press multi-channel and see
the speakers I've actually enabled.
And there's several
things I can select from.
Once you set a
multi-channel layout in AMS,
that's the preferred thing.
That's the thing that
QuickTime will find.
So if you need to go back to stereo,
you only have two speakers hooked up,
you need to actually select
it as a stereo device.
Now this is new in Tiger,
you may have a little
difficulty with Panther.
But I'm sure you're
all running Tiger now,
aren't you?
And then there's the
gain setting as well,
and that will track...
If I change volume here,
you'll see that changes down and listens.
Okay.
On the left-hand side-- well,
let me go back to the slides.
The device layout,
if you plug in a multi-channel
device and it's unconfigured,
the default will be stereo.
Now, I hope you're all running 7.0.1,
the update that we just released,
because there was a bug that if you
plugged in a device and it was not known,
then it would assume it was
multi-channel and you'd find your mono
tracks going to the third channel,
which is not what's supposed to
happen in 7.0.1 that's fixed.
Please stay up to date with our updates.
We do this for you.
Audio MIDI Setup is your friend,
and as I mentioned, the channel layouts,
once you set multi-channel layouts,
that trumps the stereo pair.
And remember,
mono tracks route to the center speaker,
so once you have a center speaker,
you're routing mono to that,
not to left and right anymore.
Okay,
now I'll go on to the routing panel.
We've got...
The summary channel layout is a
description of all the channels
in the movie summed together.
So if you've got multiple tracks,
it sort of tells you what the summary is.
If all the lefts would mix together,
all the rights would mix together,
and the summary tells you what the
final mix is going to look like.
So this shows the summary channel layout.
If you select in the top
selector a specific track,
then it'll show that track and
all the channels in that track,
and this will let you pop up and
change the channels that are selected.
And there's a gain slider for
the track as well that stays in
sync with a property listener.
I'll show you this and show you some
of the code for it on the demo machine.
So here you've got that layout,
and we have selectors for all the tracks.
And you can change the speakers
right there if you'd like.
And that will all take effect
just as it did in player.
Let me show you the code.
I actually didn't show you
the code for the device stuff,
so let me just show you that first.
To get the gain for a movie,
you can actually either call
getMovieAudioGain with a float argument,
or get the movie property for gain.
Either one works.
If you want to be listening
for changes in the device,
then...
You say, QT, add movie property listener,
and specify the property
you're interested in,
and then the...
[Transcript missing]
Such a big font,
it's a little difficult to navigate.
Is here.
So here's the gain change callback.
It gets the property class and ID.
We just check to see if
it's the right movie.
Otherwise, we only have one property
we're listening for now.
So we'll say update what you're
displaying for that property.
For the device channel layout...
Once we have a movie open, we can say,
QT,
get movie property info on that movie,
and say, we're interested in the
device channel layout.
Tell us what you've got,
and it'll tell you the
size of that device.
That's a variable size structure,
depending on how many
channels are in the movie.
So you always want to get the size first,
and then allocate something to hold it,
and then you can do get movie
property and actually load the
channel layout into your application.
It's very easy to launch an
Audio MIDI setup from Cocoa,
just launch applications.
So,
very easy to add into your applications.
Now on the left-hand side,
we had the movie summary layout.
Again, that's just a property,
and it's the summary channel layout.
And it's the same exact code.
You say, get movie property of
summary channel layout,
get property info, gets the size,
allocate, and then get the property,
and you've got it loaded in memory.
We actually have another facility in this
application called Expand Channel Layout,
which will make sure that instead
of getting a tag that says,
for instance, 5.1 or stereo,
you get all the channel names
expanded into your structure.
And that's useful for presenting UI.
You want to get the individual
channel names and whatnot.
You just need to expand it so
you can get them one by one.
You'll see all that in the sample code.
Once you select a track
on that left-hand side,
we do another Get Property Info to
get the channel layout of that track,
and then we allocate and
load that into memory.
If you select a different channel layout,
well, all you do is call...
Set property of the channel
layout that you have,
and remember your size.
And Track Audio Gain is just
the same as Movie Audio Gain,
QT Set Track property or
use the Track Framework
API for your gain property.
Now I'll go back to slides, please.
Let me talk a little bit
about audio channel labels.
Every channel is either
unlabeled or it's labeled.
And if it's labeled,
then it can have a spatial
or a non-spatial label.
The spatial labels are
defined in CoreAudioTypes.h
and are things like left,
right, center, left surround,
right surround, whatnot.
There's a big list of them.
Non-spatial labels are things like mono,
which just says this is mono data,
and will route to center
speaker if there is one.
Otherwise,
it will route to left and right.
And we have these labels called discrete,
number discrete labels.
So, for instance,
if you have a mixer associated with
your device instead of actual speakers,
and you want to say, oh,
I've got 16 mixer inputs,
and I want to route this
track to mixer input 5...
Numbering from zero, you can, say,
set this channel label to discrete 5,
and then it'll play to the
sixth output of the device,
and then everything will route that way.
So this bypasses the mixer capabilities,
really.
Unlabeled content if we see old movies.
Without labels,
we assume that one channel is mono,
two channels stereo.
Anything bigger than
that and not labeled,
we'll say, well,
we don't know what that is,
so we'll call it all
mono so you'll hear it,
and then you can set the labels
and route it the way you want.
I'm going to show you a
little bit about this.
If, for instance,
we have a 5.1 movie and we're
playing to a 5.1 device,
the movie mixer is very straightforward.
We just multiply straight through.
Now, if we were playing this same
movie to a stereo device,
it gets a little trickier.
And what happens is the left and right
obviously go straight to left and right.
Center now has to split and
go to both left and right.
And as it's split,
each side is dropped down by 3 dB,
and that's so that perceptually
you'll hear the same volume.
The LFE, or the low-frequency speaker,
just goes away because normally you
don't want to hear low-frequency
content played in normal speakers.
It's not good for them,
and it's not good for you.
But the left surround and right
surround are also dropped down 3 dB
because they're presumably behind
you and a little less important,
and then routed to
left and right as well.
So let me show you how that
will work on the demo machine.
If I bring up the extraction panel,
you can see that the default
extraction is the summary layout.
Bring this back to summary.
And if I say preview, I'll hear that,
just as we heard before,
in all the speakers.
Now if I say play to stereo,
or extract to stereo,
it'll do the mixing we just saw,
and you'll hear them only left and right.
And you hear there's no bass.
If we were extracting quad,
we'd have left-right, left-surround,
right-surround, so the flute would
move to left and right,
the back speakers would stay the same,
but again, there's no bass.
So you hear the conga and
the brass in the back now.
So this is not a,
this panel is not really designed
for doing much useful work,
but it's really designed to
help you visualize or audio-lize
what's going on with the movie,
and it should be very helpful.
And also, obviously,
all the sample code is very interesting.
And I'm going to show
you some sample code.
Where is it?
I'm going to talk about the
movie audio extraction now.
And basically what you do is
you start an extraction session,
and let's movie audio extraction begin.
And now you've got a handle,
and that is related to the
movie you started with.
And then you get properties,
set properties, fill buffer,
which means get data from
the audio extraction,
and then do whatever you want with it,
and then end the audio extraction.
Pretty straightforward.
So here's the begin.
To get the stream layout, stream format,
you ask for the audio stream basic
description from the extraction
session that you've opened.
And to get the channel layout,
which is the default layout that started
when you first opened the extraction,
which is the summary channel layout,
you say get property on the extraction
of the channel layout property.
This is before.
You want to get a get info
as well to get the size.
Let's up here.
Then if you want to
set a different format,
then you call set property on that.
[Transcript missing]
And that really bypasses
all of the mixing,
and you get all those speakers,
all those channels out individually.
There's also a current time,
which specifies where in the movie
you're going to start the extraction,
so you don't always have
to start at the beginning.
So you set the property current time,
and then you start
extraction from that point.
You can always set current time
and start a new point if you like,
so you can jump around that way.
Once you want to get your data,
you use Movie Audio Extraction
Fill Buffer with a buffer list,
which is a Core Audio buffer list,
and just the number of frames you want,
and you're in business.
Then you can do anything
you want with it.
And when you're done, of course,
you say Movie Audio Extraction End.
So I'll go back to Slides.
So again,
there's that routing pane that you'll
see in the example code with the
layout selector and lets you display
and edit the channel labels of the
particular extraction you want to do.
So you can come up with funny extractions
and see how that's all going to work.
Start and end times, preview and export.
The preview and export both work
on separate threads if they can.
I'll talk about that in a minute.
Quick summary of audio extraction.
Begin, set properties, get properties,
fill buffer, and end.
You'll only get data from
participating audio context tracks.
That means soundtracks right now,
but there's more become implemented
then you get them as well.
The movie must be active when
you start because non-active
movies don't have any audio,
essentially.
And all the tracks that you want
to hear should be enabled as well.
The first thing that happens
when you start pulling data
through is you clone the movie,
which makes a copy of it.
And that means that if you make
edits in the movie you started with,
they're not going to be
reflected in your extraction.
Now what happens is you configure
your extraction and then start.
And the cloning starts
when you start fill buffer.
So you can configure to
your heart's content.
Once you say fill buffer,
your configuration is frozen and
that extraction session is only
good for that configuration.
Then if you want to change
what you're extracting,
you can do that.
Once you're done extracting,
you close it and open a new one.
Otherwise,
we recommend that you keep it open
because it's a little more expensive
to close and reopen every time you want
to pull a little data out of the movie.
The initial default, as I said,
is the summary channel
layout of the movie,
and we look at all the tracks
and find the highest sample rate,
and we'll give you that sample rate.
If you want to lower it,
you're welcome to.
We only support PCM data or
uncompressed data coming out
of movie audio extraction.
You'll have to do your own
compression if you want to do that.
The all-channels discrete option,
as I said, circumvents the mixer.
Once you set that,
you can get your stream layout again,
and that'll tell you how many
channels you're going to get.
Set current time to set the
start point of where you're
going to begin extracting.
If you have compressed audio data,
I'll mention that often decompressors
have a little latency to get up
to speed to get the right thing.
So if you try to seam together pieces
that should be next to each other but
you haven't pulled all the way through,
or this way, I guess, to you,
then you may get a little bit of an
audio glitch at the beginning because the
decompressor hasn't been properly primed.
We actually hope we can
actually fix this internally,
but in the meantime,
you might want to start your extraction
a little bit earlier and throw away
the initial quarter second or so
to get the decompressor primed,
and then you'll get valid data out.
Once you go past the end of the movie,
you'll get silence.
At the end of the track,
So just get the movie or track
durations to limit how much
you're going to extract out.
And as I said, we can migrate movies to
another thread so you can do
extraction in the background.
But remember, this only works if all the
codecs are thread-safe.
Everything that the movie opens
has to be thread-safe or else
you're not allowed to migrate.
So if there's any audio
codec developers out there,
please make sure that your
codecs are thread-safe.
And then once they are,
mark them with the component
thread-safe flag so that we'll
know that and applications will
be able to access them that way.
Let me go back to the
demo machine for a moment.
And I'll just show you that
once you select a channel
layout on the extraction,
we can actually make funny ones,
but you don't want to
have duplicate channels.
It actually kind of works as expected,
but you normally would not
want to extract with two
left channels or something.
That's kind of weird.
But you can set start time and end time,
and preview and export will follow that.
The code that I want to show you
is that code for multi-threading.
So when we say start preview,
when you've hit the preview button,
then we say we want to migrate
the movie that's the main
thread movie to another thread.
So we're going to put it into a handle
and make a new movie from that handle.
Actually, this code needs to be changed.
It's not going to preserve the pitch,
preserving various--we need
to make a quick change to
this before we publish it.
Then you detach the movie
from the current thread,
saying let go of it.
And
You spawn a thread in your application
so your new thread can take over.
That's Detach New Thread Selector,
and it gives you a
function that you can call.
And then once you get in that function,
you have to say Enter Movies on
Thread to say this thread is going
to be using the QuickTime APIs,
and then Attach Movie to Current Thread.
It says bring this
movie into this thread,
and once that succeeds,
you can then do your
extraction on that thread.
Back to slides.
I'm going to bring up Brad Ford to talk
about Audio Capture and SG Audio Channel.
Thanks.
Hi, thanks for coming.
I'm Brad Ford.
Let's talk about audio capture,
and that means sequence grabber.
If you've been here the last two years,
you know that this message is
starting to sound repetitive
because we've been talking about
the same things over and over,
but now we finally shipped it,
and one might think, "Well,
what have you been doing
in all that time?" Well,
we've been vetting it,
and we had two very important
early adopters to this technology.
I'd like to give you
a demo of one of them.
Could we switch to demo two, please?
Some of you may have heard of this
application called Final Cut Pro.
Some of you might even use it.
Uh, they had a tough problem.
A lot of people were buying
these expensive decks like
these DVC Pro HD decks.
They're $25,000 decks that can
support eight channels of audio,
and they can bring in
these huge 1080i 60 video
Streams,
but only two channels of audio at a
time because Sequence Grabber only
supported two channels of audio.
Well,
they were very eager to see us adopt
Core Audio on the capture side,
and we went ahead and did that.
So I've got a DVC Pro HD deck up here,
and as you can see,
it's got eight channels of audio.
I'm only interested in four
of them because that's where
I've got my audio playing.
Now, their interface is really interested
in stereo pairs or dual monos.
They're not really a surround app
so much as a multi-channel app.
So they were interested
in being able to have...
Audio brought in to separate tracks
in the QuickTime movie to preserve
their idea of mononess versus
stereoness without needing to get
n number of channels in the track.
Well, SG Audio Channel supports that.
If you click this button,
you're going to get two tracks of audio.
They instantiate two SG Audio channels
to get these two tracks.
So if I do this,
because I've turned off these guys,
I'm only going to get four
channels of audio in the movie,
and they will be in four audio tracks.
If I click the gang buttons,
we'll get two tracks of
audio each with stereo.
So that's a pretty neat,
interesting use of the
new API right there.
And you can see we can
bring in 1080i material.
Uh, and it's got, uh, as we would expect,
four channels of audio,
and you can see the
waveforms right there.
Uh, but they're not the only
interesting clients.
Another interesting client is, uh,
not Safari.
'Cause what would Safari want
to capture audio for?
Uh... Set my deck over to...
Play mode.
QuickTime Player now supports
audio capture as well.
So we can bring in the same audio
using the same SG Audio channel.
It's doing metering.
You can see that right here.
♪ Or you can also do an audio recording,
audio only from the same source.
Okay, so I just stopped my
recording and there it is.
Pretty interesting.
Uh, and along those lines, uh,
so you just saw I captured a little
snippet of a DVC Pro HD movie.
Well, you guys are all here presumably
because you like QuickTime,
and QuickTime's all about movies,
so let's take a little break
and watch a stupid movie,
shall we?
This one I captured
from a DVC Pro HD deck.
So it's 1080i 6D with
four channels of audio.
It was brought in into
four separate tracks,
as you can see here.
And the only change I had to
do after bringing it in with
Final Cut was to label them left,
right, left surround, right surround.
Can we buck it up a little bit?
Our computer is great.
Let's go back to slides.
So, using SG Audio Channel.
You too can do that.
Let's look at a block diagram
of the SG Audio Channel.
So this is what it looks
like from the inside.
We just saw from the outside.
The deck bringing in audio,
and we saw it coming out the other end.
The important thing to realize
with SG Audio Channel is
that each instantiation of it
equals one track in the movie,
as it shows right here.
One SG Audio Channel equals
one track in the movie.
Inside, it's got a matrix mixer,
an audio converter, a cue,
and eventually gets written to file.
One nice thing about it over
the old implementation is
that we have good threading.
So we bring in audio on the
Core Audio HAL I/O thread.
We process it on a thread that's
owned by the SG Audio Channel,
a high-priority worker thread
that does the conversion,
the mixing, and then it's cued up there,
and then we write to disk on
the main thread at SG idle time.
Migration Story.
If any of you use Sequence Grabber and
you use the current SG Sound Channel,
change to the new one, please.
This is a replacement
for the SG Sound Channel.
Applications must opt in.
We couldn't make it as automatic
as playback and extraction
and export because the old
channel was too tightly wound.
Well, it was too tightly coupled to
the sound input components.
The SG Sound Channel is
in maintenance mode.
A lot of you post to the
QuickTime API list about problems
with Sequence Grabber and sound.
Those will be addressed
in the SG Audio Channel.
It has configuration through
component properties.
We'll see more about that.
Now, one caveat is that we did not ship
an SG Settings dialog in QuickTime 7
for this new audio channel,
but I'm going to show you some
sample code on how you can
write your own UI based on the
properties that are supported.
One caveat with our device support is
that we still do not have a DV25 or DV50
Core Audio HAL plugin or kernel driver.
It's still the sound manager one.
Well, we don't force you to use the
old SG Sound Channel just for DV.
We've shimmed that into
the SG Audio Channel so you
can use it for DV as well.
But the caveat is that you'll
be limited to two channels
at a time for DV25 and DV50.
First two, second two, or all four mixed.
But the great story is that we support
capture from Core Audio devices.
One input device per
SG Audio channel instance.
But if you're on Tiger,
you can leverage the work that went
into the HAL for aggregate devices.
We've tested this, and it works.
So if you have, say,
two Pro interfaces that each
do 24 channels of audio,
and you gang them together so that
they look like one big device,
one big aggregate device
to audio MIDI setup,
then if you open up an application
that uses SG Audio channels,
such as Final Cut or QuickTime Player,
it will see that aggregate device
and capture from 48 channels.
One caveat is that we only
support PCM input only.
So if a device delivers MPEG-1
Layer 2 natively via a driver or
some other non-mixable format,
we will not deal with it.
We need to have PCM coming
from the audio device.
We support real-time preview
to Core Audio devices,
one output device per
SG Audio channel instance,
just like one input device per instance.
But multiple SG Audio channels may
be instantiated in a single grab,
so you can capture from
multiple devices at a time.
You can also preview to
And there are component
properties for those things,
too.
All right.
If any of you use Sequence Grabber,
you probably have looked at Hack TV.
Has anyone-- raise your hand
if you've used Hack TV before.
Yay.
This is venerable.
It's like 15 years old.
Well, today we're giving you
something a little bit nicer.
Wacked TV.
Wacked TV is a replacement that we
wrote for Hack TV that's a Cocoa app
that supports the SG Audio channel.
Thank you.
We also provide some wrapper
Objective-C classes for SG objects.
We're providing sample
SG Audio Configuration Panel to
show you how to make UI of your own.
And as a benefit, a side benefit,
we're showing you how to do
some improvements with video,
too.
So it uses decompression
sessions to preview the video,
and it writes them into OpenGL views.
So let's take a look at that.
Can we go to demo two?
Sorry.
This is WAC TV.
It is a Cocoa app.
It has classes.
And you'll see here we've
got a couple classes.
Now, the QuickTime-- the Qt kit that
we shipped does not have support
for SequenceGrabber for capturing,
but we did a kind of reasonable little
subset here that lets you do most things.
So you can grab those if you haven't
made your own wrappers already,
and you'll-- I think you'll be
pleasantly surprised that there's
a lot of functionality in them.
I tried to make them generic
enough that you can reuse
them in your own Cocoa apps.
And then we have some
specific stuff to our app.
Now, the first thing let's
show you is-- and now,
WACtv is on your CD that
came-- that you got yesterday,
hopefully.
But an updated version will
be available on the web and
at the lab afterwards on CD.
And you'll want to get the updated
version because it's much cooler.
Okay.
Will my bookmarks work?
Yes, they will.
QuickTimeComponents.h is your friend.
That's where you'll find
everything related to the
Sequence Grabber audio channel.
Just do a search for
SG Audio and start reading.
You'll see all of the
properties that we support,
the classes that are associated
with those properties,
and there's also notes about
which properties are holdovers
from the old SG Sound channel,
which ones will work with the new one,
and then a good description
of each property.
We're trying to do a better
job of documenting our headers.
I hope you appreciate that.
Okay, now let's show you,
before we go any further,
let me show you the UI for Wacked TV.
It lets you make more
than one audio channel,
more than one video channel,
which is a change, of course,
from Hack TV.
I'm going to add a video track first for
all our video brethren in the audience.
Okay, here's me again.
This is, again, DVC Pro HD,
but it's drawing into an NS OpenGL view,
and so it has really good scaling,
for instance.
I've given you some options to
show you how to lower the quality.
You'll see it immediately
go fuzzy when I do that,
and you can also throttle back the
preview rate and stuff like that.
So please look at the sample code.
I'm not going to let you look
at the sample code in here,
because we're all about audio,
but you should look at the
sample code yourself and see it.
Now, for audio...
Here is a sample settings panel.
Like I said,
we didn't ship an SG Settings dialog,
but I wrote this one
using just the properties.
So you can do it too.
And it shows you that you
can select recording devices,
for instance.
You can set their--
and the team at QuickTime 7 are
here to share their insights
into the new audio capabilities.
Is it there?
Oh, there it is.
Sorry, the font's messing with me.
Now when I init this SGAudio component,
what I do is I've wrapped
the component property calls,
get, set, and getInfo.
So I'm going to get
the property info list,
which will tell me all of
the properties that this
particular component responds to.
And then I'm going to add
property listeners for each
of those that I care about.
Well, I'm going to add a property
listener for all of them.
And because this is a Cocoa app,
I decided to forward
those property listeners,
which are callbacks, as notifications.
So you'll see here when I see that
such and such a property change,
I forward it on as a notification.
And in listener three,
we see our app respond to that.
The SG Audio device lists
change notification,
for instance.
It responds to that.
This WAC TV controller object pays
attention to that notification.
When it sees it,
it does interesting things rather
than blowing up and quitting,
which is always nice.
So let's do something that we're
never supposed to do on stage.
Let's pull the plug.
I have an EMI right here,
and I'm going to pull the cable out.
Oh my gosh.
It says it disappeared,
but it didn't crash.
That's always nice.
And that's because it was
listening to that property change.
And so I go and I select a new device,
and I'll plug that device back in.
And after a while, he'll show up.
After a while, he'll show up.
There he is.
Thank you.
You know, dealing with devices on
stage is like herding cats.
Okay.
So now that's how we
listen to properties.
Can we go back to slides?
Device channel selection.
Wouldn't be very interesting
if you had to always get all
the channels on the device.
If you only want, for instance,
four of them instead of eight or 24,
you would be sunk.
But we provide you with component
properties that let you do this.
You can discover the device's
format as a flattened stream,
not multiple streams
like the HAL does it.
So if, for instance,
it's a complicated device
that has 18 different streams,
you don't have to go try to
query all the different streams.
We'll present a flattened audio stream
basic description that represents
all the channels on the device.
We'll let you set the device format,
and we'll let you specify a subset of
device channels using the channel map.
And using multiple
SG Audio channel instances,
of course, then you can split up these
channels across tracks in a movie,
just as Final Cut did in the first demo.
So back to the demo machine,
I'll show you how we do that.
First in the app... Channel 1, Channel 2,
Channel 3... So I'll just turn
off some of these channels.
Okay, makes sense?
Now let's go back here and find
out how we did that in code.
Oh, there it is.
So setting the channel map is a little
bit trickier than setting one property.
You need to know both the device,
or excuse me, yeah,
the record device channel
layout as well as the map,
because the number of
channels needs to mesh.
So you should stop the channel preview
before you set these properties.
Go and find your new channel map.
A channel map is a number of
channels that you want to enable.
So for instance,
right there I turned off 4, 5, and 6,
and I just have channels 0, 1,
and 2 if I'm zero-based.
So I would pass it an
array of Sint32s with 0,
1, 2.
And then I would also pass it
a channel layout that had three
channel descriptions in it.
And then when I'm done setting
these properties on the
SGAudio record device class,
I set the channel map and
I set the layout right there.
Then I go ahead and I start
the channel preview again.
Okay, back to slides.
Okay, let's look at the insides.
A lot of people have been posting to
the list about using the SG Dataproc,
and that's fine for some things,
but it's apparently being overused,
and we would really like you to stop
doing that and use something better.
The SG Audio channel has more
appropriate places for you to
tap in and do interesting things
with the audio than the Dataproc.
Now, the Dataproc, if you've used the
sequence grabber before,
you know that capture
happens in several phases.
It happens,
you get the data from the device,
then it might be transformed somehow,
mixed or compressed,
and then it's probably queued up,
chunked,
and then finally written to disk.
Now, the SG Dataproc is a
very interesting device.
The SG Dataproc fires
right here at number five,
which is right as the buffers are
about to be delivered to disk.
So it's too late to do some operations.
You don't really want to be
performing interesting things
with your audio at that point.
That's too late.
The better place to do them is
one of these other four callbacks.
So you can register a
callback to get the audio.
We'll give it to you as
an audio buffer list,
so you can use it with Core Audio.
You can use it with Post Mix,
Pre-Conversion, or Post-Conversion,
or you can continue to
use the SG Dataproc.
The difference between number four and
number five is that the Post-Conversion
phase is before it's been queued.
So by default,
we chunk audio in half-second chunks.
So if you register for number four,
you'll get audio much more
frequently and in smaller,
more consumable byte sizes
than if you sit on the
SG Dataproc to see samples then,
when you'll get a half a second of audio.
at a time,
which is kind of too much to process.
SG Audio Callbacks: Pre and Post Mix and
Pre and Post Conversion.
Five points for you to tap in.
Let's look at interesting things
that we can do with that in WAC-TV.
Thank you.
All right.
So I'm going to turn up the audio again.
Now,
many of you may have seen this ominous
button down in the corner that seems to
be mocking us and asking us to press it.
Well, these AU effects are not
supported in SG Audio Channel.
We didn't provide any effects built in.
But I decided to use the pre-mix callback
to see the buffers as they come in,
modify them in place by running
them through an audio unit chain,
and then sending them
back into the stream.
So we can do fun stuff like this.
Select an AU effect.
Let's select an obvious one.
"The Twilight Zone" "Channel 5,
Channel 6" Or Band Pass, for instance,
which makes it sound like
you're on a telephone.
So that's cool.
I mean, a lot of these effects you
probably would not want to put
in audio as it's being recorded,
but I could very well see someone
wanting to throw a compressor limiter
in there as a clip suppressor,
for instance.
So let's see in code how we did that.
In my SG Audio class that
wraps the SG Audio channel,
I accept an AUFX component description.
I go and I open that component,
and then the most important
piece of code is right here.
I fill out one of these
SG Audio callback structs with the
name of my callback and the refcon,
and then I call QT set component
property with SG Audio premix callback.
That means that my listener will fire
when audio arrives at the premix stage,
and then I can start shoveling
it through my audio unit chain,
which I create right here lazily.
And so even though we officially
say that the SG Audio channel
tap-in points are for read-only,
you can see here I've used them
to write into the buffers as well.
Okay, let's go on to the next slide.
Okay, we have SG Audio Channel has
very flexible preview.
Again, it's configurable using
component properties.
You can either select a hardware
playthrough or a software preview.
Hardware playthrough will only work
if the device in question supports it.
And you can find that out by
getting the device attributes
via component property and asking
whether it supports hard playthrough.
Now, there are two properties
that come into play here.
One is you need to set the record
device on the SG Audio Channel.
You can also set a preview device.
In order to have hardware or
zero latency playthrough work,
both the record device and the preview
device have to be the same device,
and it has to support playthrough.
Otherwise,
we'll do software preview very flexibly.
You can specify what you want to preview.
Remember those tap
points that I showed you,
one through four?
Well, those you can specify as places
you want to preview as well.
So you can preview what has just come
from the device or what was already mixed
or what has already been converted to,
say, some compressed format.
Software Preview will mix
to the destination device's
layout automatically.
Let's look at that.
Okay,
here's my channel 1 through 6 again.
Now let's go ahead and label these
so we get something more interesting
than coming out left and right.
Okay, now we're previewing this post-mix.
What happens if I set
the output format to,
say, mono?
Or better yet...
AMR Narrowband.
Now what we're hearing is still
what's coming off the post-mix,
but now it's mono.
If I preview pre-mix--
We hear it coming out the
different speakers again.
Now if I do post-conversion,
you're hearing what it sounds
like coming off of AMR.
Kind of sounds like a cell phone,
doesn't it?
But I guess that's the point.
Okay,
so all of those options are available to
you using the flexible preview features.
Oh, and I should also show
you the code for that,
since this WWDC is all about the code.
You can see when I am told
to update the preview flags,
I just go and I set preview flags
on the Sequence Grabber channel,
and those flags are defined
in QuickTimeComponents.h.
Look for Channel Play.
You'll see four new flags that are paid
attention to by the SG Audio channel:
Premix, Postmix, Preconversion,
or Postconversion.
And that will tell it
what you want to preview.
Can we go back to slides?
ENCODES is the last topic we'll cover.
You can do ENCODES on the fly,
as I just showed you going to AMR.
By default, you'll get exactly the format
that's present on the device.
It will go through Core Audio,
so it will be kind of blown up to
canonical float 32 along the path,
but what we'll actually write to the
file will be what was on the device.
This ME, for instance,
is in 24-bit little endian integer mode,
so that's what we'll get
in our file by default,
unless we specify a different output.
But via component properties,
you can specify any
output format you want,
sample rate conversion,
any flavor of PCM.
You can also encode to VBR formats,
such as Apple lossless and AAC.
You can specify a different output
channel layout than the device's,
and we'll just do the right thing.
If you are a control freak and
you don't want to specify the
output layout and input layout
cross-point coefficients are,
you can set that as a property too
and basically control the exact
mix that we'll put in the movie.
That's also available
as a component property.
Let's look at that.
Specifying output format.
I already showed you the demo of it,
but here's the code that goes behind it.
Now,
this little dialog that we used... Oh,
it's a real app.
This dialogue here,
you may have noticed in QuickTime Player,
the Pro version, this is what we use as
our export dialogue,
and this is what Daniel was talking
about as the stood audio component.
This is the stock dialogue,
but I've also done some
custom configuration on it.
It doesn't show all of the output formats
that we normally do in QuickTime Player,
and it shows a different list
of supported layouts than
we do in QuickTime Player,
and I'll show you how I did that.
I specify a list of limited
formats that I want it to show,
and I specified some
arbitrary list of tags,
tagged layouts that I want it to show.
And then I find out what my
record device's input format
and channel layout are.
Then I open up a std audio
component of subtype audio,
which is Audi,
and I set those properties on it.
First I tell it,
your client-restricted compression
format list should be the one that
I specified with just LPCM and ALAC.
And then I set its restricted
channel layout tag list so it
only shows the restricted list.
And then I use my starting
and ending formats.
And I let the dialog come up by calling
SC Request Image Settings.
Somewhat of a misnomer,
but it's because of its heritage as a
standard video configuration component.
So once it's done,
we have the new output format
that the person has desired.
I get that out as a sound description,
and I set that property as the output
sound description of my SG Audio channel,
and now we get a
compressed output format.
Okay, that's it for me.
Back to Daniel.
Thank you.
Shortly after Tiger was released,
there was a web review of
Tiger on arstechnica.com.
And it went into all the
Tiger features and whatnot.
Of course, I was only interested
in the QuickTime part.
And one of the things that it said was,
"We
My favorite new feature is
the playback speed adjustment,
how it can increase speed of
audio without changing pitch.
That means I can watch WWDC sessions
at one and a half times speed
without making every presenter
sound like one of the chipmunks.
However, it said,
there is no filter for Bertrand's accent,
unfortunately.
Now, in the QuickTime audio team,
we take feedback very seriously.
And we thought we would
try to address this.
And we're going to give you a little
sneak preview of some of the technology
we're working on to address this.
So we've got a clip of
Bertrand from WWDC 2003.
Well,
we wanted to clean that up a little bit,
so we've got a new menu item
called Translation Services,
which will perform translations.
You can, for instance,
translate to English.
Now I know what you're thinking.
I know what you're thinking.
It sounds a little wooden and Australian.
But many of the engineers in
the audio team are Australian,
and you can't really criticize
their accents at all,
so we let them do that.
Of course,
we didn't want to stop at English.
We wanted to support other languages,
so we've got Spanish.
We'll have the full feature set,
obviously,
when we're ready to release this.
And of course, in today's world,
you can't really do anything
without having an Indian language,
so we have Hindi.
My personal favorite is
the Yiddish translator.
. Now, as you all know,
the test of any translation
feature is to go back and forth
between the original language and,
say, English, many times until it
reaches a steady state.
And that will sort of
tell you how you're doing.
And I think you'll see we still have
a little work to do in this area,
but I thought I'd demo
what we've gotten so far.
We've gone,
processed from French to English,
English to French 50 times.
It comes out like this.
So we'll work on that
before we release it.
Back to slides, please.
So let me just remind you
of what we talked about.
The player and the pro features in the
player help you with your multi-channel
content creation and recording.
The channel labels inform the movie
mixer about how to mix your audio,
and you want to support
that in your applications.
You can extract using movie
audio extraction and any
channel layout you specify,
and the device itself has a
channel layout associated with
it that all controls the mixer.
Please use discretion
using the discrete labels.
This is not intended
for publishing media.
The discrete channels are really to
map from your movie to your device,
and for your use in development.
You don't want to see movies out
on the web with discrete layouts.
They won't really work properly.
You can use Movie Audio Extraction to
get the mixed audio out of the movie.
You won't get anything
from protected content,
of course.
and Audio Capture has
many new capabilities,
synchronized multi-channel
capture for multiple devices,
very flexible architecture for mixing,
routing, and preview.
The website, the developer website for
all the audio capabilities of
QuickTime is very sadly out of date,
and I'm happy to say that we're
in the process of revamping that,
and we'll have a whole lot more
information and more modern
samples up there very soon.
We'll be spending the next few
weeks and months working on that,
so we can have much better
examples and documentation for you.
The sample code you saw today,
you can come to the lab and get a
copy onto your disk or wait a week
and it'll be published on the web,
and also look on the web
to see what else there is.
We'll be constantly updating,
so we'll get much more
sample code out to you.
This afternoon there's a
Core Audio session on using audio
units in this room at 2 o'clock.
And tomorrow morning is a
hands-on lab all morning with
QuickTime Audio team members.
And in the afternoon,
a lot of Core Audio people
will be there as well.
I can't be there tomorrow,
but I'll be in the lab this afternoon,
particularly after the Core Audio talk.
So come talk to me if you'd like
to ask any questions or come
tomorrow during the hands-on lab.
And of course, the QuickTime feedback
forum is Friday afternoon,
and you can come and complain
about all the things you want
differently and tell us how great we
are when we've done what you liked.